Welcome to JavaScript and
TypeScript repos.
My name is Mike North.
I'm a senior staff engineer at LinkedIn,
where I lead the infrastructure
as a product team.
So I'm kind of a product designer for
for software infrastructure.
And one of the things I'm focused on
is helping teams lots of engineers,
Find a great developer experience.
mono repos are a big part of that.
So the idea behind a mono repo is I mean,
if we break it down,
it's literally one repo.
This word can be used to
describe many things.
And in fact it is.
So if you talk to People who are,
you know,
not primarily focused in
the JavaScript ecosystem,
they may think it describes the way
Google manages their source code.
For example, the whole company
commits everything to one repository.
We mean something specific today.
And that is many related packages.
Usually packages that have
interdependencies between them, right,
they're deeply entangled, they're all
located in a single git repository.
We're gonna learn about this today
in the context of a Slack app.
So, if you look at this app,
many things going on.
Right, you can have all of
these different concerns.
You have some UI components, you have
a data layer things that are fetching,
JSON, you have some utilities like for
date formatting.
And then we have some types because
this project is going to be written in
TypeScript although you don't need to know
TypeScript At all today in order to take
this course.
What we'll get by structuring
this as a mono repo,
we can break it apart, and
we can treat it as independent layers,
each of which has a great
encapsulation boundary around it.
So it's almost like
within the same Git repo,
we have three small libraries Then I'll
come together to become an app.
And you can imagine how
we could use the same
three libraries to create a COI or an API.
Or maybe we have a desktop and
a mobile web experience that
are a little bit different.
We have lots of options here because we,
we have these composable building blocks,
instead of just one big pool of code.
So why should you care about monorepos?
Well I mentioned that they are a great
encapsulation tool that otherwise
would not be able to get
in the job ecosystem.
You have low overhead of making changes.
So if you make a change that affects
types And a web component and
the data layer,
you can just have a single commit and
a single pull request that will do
everything that's needed to be done.
And, and that's it.
The alternative would be, you know,
treating these as fully independent
libraries, and you'd need to Make
a small change, cut a release and
thread all of that through many releases.
It's a lot more work.
You also get the ability to test
everything together before you
cut a release.
The other approach I just mentioned,
where you have individual
libraries each in their own repo.
There's a possibility that
you only find out at the end.
When you're bringing things through
propagating things through your
dependency tree.
You only find out problems as
you reach those last steps.
Today I hope to show you how you get a lot
of the benefits of using many libraries.
With the overhead of one Git repository,
right,
a lot lower than maintaining
a bunch of independent libraries.
So like anything, I want to make sure
we don't treat this as a cure all.
There are a few new tools that
we're going to have to learn.
And there are some new risks,
duplicate dependencies is one of
the things we're goa e talking about.
So, it's important to understand that
this is not a pattern it's just better
than a typical monolith project structure.
There are cases where it
provides lots of benefits and
today we're gonna learn how
to identify those cases.
And those those will be the good
candidates, you know, to,
to use a mono repo project structure for.
So not only are we gonna get a slack app
out of this, we're gonna have some great
API documentation and you can see here at
the bottom of the screen We have all these
different packages, data layer types,
our UI, which is our components, and
then utilities, each of which is going
to have a nice little like homepage for
this little package within our app.
And then you can see that we're able to
have great documentation for functions and
for types.
And so I will show you how to use
a tool that sort of brings all of this
together into one documentation site,
not one site per package.
In order to learn about mono repos.
Today we're going to address
a series of topics and
the the point of ordering things
the way I've chosen to order them
today is I want us to start with
a very basic, mostly empty project.
And I want us to layer up piece by piece,
all of this tooling that you
typically would end up using
when working with a mono repo.
By the end of this course you're
going to understand exactly what each
thing does and you'll be able to feel,
How it is to work with the project
before you add it and after.
And this was a big pain point for me when
I was learning this kind of tooling.
I you know, you're just given like six or
seven new CL eyes and
you're not necessarily it's not
clear who does what thing right So
we'll start with yarn workspaces.
We will use the composite project
feature of the TypeScript
compiler that can work with JavaScript or
TypeScript.
So don't worry if you're
not used to TypeScript,
this would still be a very useful thing
for you to Incorporate into your app.
We're going to work a little
bit with some build scripts.
We're gonna then deal with the learner
which makes it easy to almost have
like a four loop where you'd say for
each package I want to run this command.
Well, we will experiment with API
extractor which is a documentation tool
from Microsoft.
That helps us understand what our
public API surface looks like.
And we will even set up our
own private NPM registry
using a project called verragio.
And that will let us experiment
with publishing packages.
right you are going to be
publishing some packages today,
although not to the real NPM You'll just
publish them to your own own machine.
And that will let us play with
some versioning strategies.
So, with that, it's time for
us to jump into the workshop project and
get our hands on some code.
So this bitly link is where you
can find the GitHub repository.
There is a folder called notes.
Make sure you look at that because
those are all the markdown notes for
each of the steps we're
gonna be taking today.
Be sure you look at the readme carefully.
There are a few tools that
you may not have used before.
And I wanna make sure that
you have everything set up so
that you will have a good time
going through this course.